---
title: Elaboration
date: 2020-12-13 18:10
tags: :smartnotes:reading:learning: #smartnotes #reading #learning
citation: (Ahrens, 2017; [Stein et al., 1984](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/226336526_Elaboration_and_knowledge_acquisition); Hermans, 2021)
---

Elaboration is the practice of thinking about the meaning of what we are reading, how it could inform questions, and how it could be used to connect to other knowledge. According to Stein et al. (1984), elaboration facilitates retention when the language used is related to the target concept. Elaborations that do not reduce the arbitrariness of relationships within content does not lead to better retention. However, elaborations that increase trace complexity and distinctiveness improve retention.

Hermans offers an exercise to structure elaboration. Answer the following questions:

+ What concepts does this new concept make you think of? Write down all the related concepts.
+ Then, for each of the related concepts you can think of, answer these questions:
	+ Why does the new concept make me think of this concept that I already know?
	+ Does it share syntax?
	+ Is it used in a similar context?
	+ Is this new concept an alternative to one I already know?
+ What other ways do you know to write code to achieve the same goal? Try to create as many variants of this code snippet as you can.
+ Do other programming languages also have this concept? Can you write down examples of other languages that support similar operations? How do they differ from the concept at hand?
+ Does this concept fit a certain paradigm, domain, library, or framework?


:TODO:
Need to look up (Gunel, Hand, & Prain, 2007)

Opposite of elaboration is [Rereading](202012131807.md).
