---
title: College
date: 2021-12-22 16:20
tags: 
citation: (Sandel, 2020)
---
With the admissions and the [Back Door vs Side Door](202112201252.md) debate in the introduction, Sandel speaks about how liberals have so valorized a college degree. Degrees are often used as an indicator of success in the US, both financially and socially. Yet, this imposes humiliation and judgement on anyone without one (which plays to his theme of the [Tyranny of Meritocracy](202112221617.md)). Considering only 32% of people 25 years or older have at least a Bachelor's degree, this leaves a majority of the country festering resentment towards those "liberal elites". We cannot rely on college degrees to address inequality when only one-third of the country has a degree.

Sandel Claims admission to elite universities has devolved into a hereditary aristocracy (p. 24) which the founding fathers explicitly tried to remove in favor of the natural aristocracy based on merit (p. 28).

Sandel speaks about admission rates at universities shifting since the 1970s but does not mention overall numbers. I should probably look into this more (pp. 60-61).

The problem with pushing education, in particular higher education, as a solution to inequality is that if you do not obtain a sufficient education, then any failure is your fault. [Sandel](Sandel.md) speaks about Thomas Frank, an author with populist tendencies. Frank claims that education as a solution is not a solution at all. Rather it is a moral judgement passed on the uneducated by the educated successful elites. When the professional class argues the need for more schooling, what they are truly saying is, "Inequality is not a failure of the system: it is a failure of you.(p. 88)"
