---
title: OOP from scratch (four times)
date: 2021-12-03 07:15
tags: :python:ZPD:learning: #python #ZPD #learning
citation: [(Hettinger, 2021)](https://youtu.be/8moWQ1561FY)
---

I just witnessed my man Ray just turned a python repl into a full on presentation. Dude just blew my mind. I was watching his pinned talk. In under 6 mins I learned about 3 new things: 1) every variable created in python is saved in a dictionary called `globals()` 2) name spaces are fantastic 3) There are some serious implications for education in general hidden in this talk.

Let's break this down. The first 5:45 mins of this talk worked for me because I had context. At min 1:00, homeboy says, "The tools that we're about to need is *name spaces*." While I have heard this term before (see: the zen of python), I have never understood what exactly that meant. I am stoked on this talk. That is, I know this talk will fill a niche need of mine. I know of the thing to which he refers, but have yet to grok it. And, perhaps most importantly, I am currently trying to learn everything I can about python because I have to teach it to middle school students. 

At 1:24 (a time difference of 24 seconds and is, I'm guessing, less than it took you to read the words in between the two time stamps) there was an issue with the stream. I understood what he said, but the visual didn't match. Lacking context I would have already been lost. I am able to persevere as he continues with dictionaries. 

He then talks about `globals()` which apparently is just a dictionary of all the variables? What? I mean, have a vague idea what `globals()` is mostly from using python modules like rich. I know that I can do something like (#TODO look this up) make `locals()` pretty print, syntax highlight, and it looks fancy in my terminal. Now, I am a little confused and already have questions. In the talk, Ray tells me that `d` is a dictionary, and globals() is a dictionary. But as a (relative) python newbie, I thought all dictionaries need to use braces such as `d = {}`. This dude has already used two dictionaries and not a curly brace in sight. I'm forced to *think* as he speaks, and I realize, "Oh wait, I do know this. I've seen this dictionary look before on YouTube." 

Then Ray hits me with another new thing, except it's not completely new. He types `from types import SimpleNamespace`. I have never heard of the module `SimpleNamespace` before in my life. But, I have the context of importing modules in python. A module is some code that exists outside your file. (An aside: I wrote the previous sentence and felt proud of myself. That was until I realized that Ray was working in the python repl and not a python file. So if that is the case, how can he import a module into something that is not actually a file. Literally the process of writing lead me to realize I don't actually understand how a python repl works.) Then he says that using the `SimpleNamespace` allows you to use dot notation and thereby not having to use the burdensome square brackets and quotes notation of the dictionary.

At roughly 4:00, he says "I have just shown you three different namespaces: dictionaries, globals, and SimpleNamespace. And they all have different ways of accessing them." For the first time in my 1.5 years study of python, I realize that any variable in python is just a key value pair in a global dictionary. That is profound. 

Ray then proceeds at upper edge of my zone of proximal development. He emulates a dictionary in the repl. Using list comprehensions he creates a key array `karr`and a value array `varr`. Then, he creates a `key, value` pair. Finally, he creates a variable `i` that stores the `hash(key) % n` where `n` is the length of the lists from the list comprehensions. This evaluates to a 'bucket' value in which he appends the `key, value` pair at index `i` to `karr, varr`. At this point, I still don't know what a hash is, but I know enough about modulo arithmetic that the expression `hash(key) % n` evaluates to a number that is somewhere within the range of the lists `karr` and `varr`.


This is a long winded way to say, teaching and learning is complicated.  This idea alone has a ton of concept packed inside:
- I have to know what modules in python are. 
- I have to know what rich is
- I have to know what the python repl is
- I have to know what dictionaries are
- I have to know that square brackets can be used for a dictionary look up, not just a list
- I have to have a system in place to get ideas on paper
