---
title: Aggregation
date: 2021-07-04 12:00
tags: :datascience:pandas:
citation: ([Corey Schafer Pandas Tutorial Pt. 8](https://youtu.be/txMdrV1Ut64); [Data Talks](https://youtu.be/kJsiiPK5sxs); Harrison, 2021)
---
Aggregate functions take multiple values and returns a singular value. `.mean()`, `.median()`, and `.mode()` are examples of aggregate methods. There are also aggregate properties as start is `.is_` (e.g., `.is_unique`). These are not called like functions, they evaluate to `True` or `False`.

`df.describe()` will identify numerical values and return several aggregate functions.

`df["Column"].value_counts(normalize=True)` will return value counts as a percentage.

A `groupby` operation is a process of splitting the object, applying a function, and then combining the results. `df.groupby(["Column"])` returns a `groupby` object that splits up the `dataframe` based on the column name. It essentially creates a filter for every possibility in the given column so you don't have to manually create that filter.

After grouping by multiple columns, you can then use `.unstack()` to get rid of the multiple indeces. This worked great for my [coding experience graph](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1HOPlWe5pcVTNRrTItAin9JzGpDN9_oAF#scrollTo=rQu-WuI11wWc) that I wanted.

A nice trick: [Count and mean of an attribute](202203191551.md)

There is a method in pandas for aggregations called `.agg()`. I remember being confused and seeing it different ways before. E.g., `city_mpg.agg('mean')` is equivalent to `city_mpg.mean()`. You should use `.agg()` when trying to perform several aggregations at once. Passing in multiple aggregation methods returns a series of all of the aggregations. See p. 35 in Effective Pandas for more info (Harrison, 2021).
