---
title: Days 4 through 6
date: 2021-05-30 13:19
tags: :python:collections:
citation: [100 days notebook on collections](https://github.com/talkpython/100daysofcode-with-python-course/blob/master/days/04-06-collections/collections.ipynb)
---

These lessons were all about the collections module. Collections are built into python and just need to be imported.
`from collections import *`

- namedtuple
- defaultdict(list)
- deque
- Counter

I attempted to solve the [Pybites 30. Movie Data Analysis](https://codechalleng.es/bites/30/) and failed miserably. To be fair, I learned a lot. I just got too frustrated, gave up and looked at the answer. I didn't understand how to extract the specified data while ignoring movies without those give fields. I didn't know how to filter out movies older that 1960. I didn't understand how to get the directors dictionary into the get average scores function.

The csv module has a built in functionality `csv.DictReader()` that will construct a default dictionary. Ignoring movies without the specified data was handled with a try, except statement. In a for loop for each line in the csv file, try: assigning each specified value to a variable. Except: `continue` if there is a `ValueError` or if the year exists, and is less than 1960. In other words, if a given row does not include all specified data points, or if it is too old, skip it and continue to the next row. An instance of the named tuple was created for each row. The director was the key, and a list of movies, stored in a named tuple, by that director was the value. 

Once the dictionary was constructed you can iterate of it with `for key, values in dictionary.items():`. This allows you to check if the director has at least 4 movies and then construct a dictionary with a key of director and a value of mean score for their movies.
