---
title: Being Smart
date: 2021-12-23 15:21
tags: :leadership:
citation: (Sandel, 2020)
---

Political rhetoric has traditionally drawn from debates about just versus unjust, strong versus weak, open versus closed. With the prevalence of meritocratic thought, the newest contrast has been smart vs dumb. This shift in political rhetoric was ushered in again by Clinton and Obama. Both spoke of their policies as not only the right thing to do, but also the smart thing to do. This implies then that being smart is superior to being right or just. This plays into the idea of the [technocratic approach to governing](202112221608.md)

Sandel argues though that being smart and possessing educational credentials does not improve the ability to govern (pp. 98-100). Only 2% of the current congress has worked in blue-collar fields such as labor, service industry, and clerical jobs. Perhaps this leaves the governing class lacking true empathy for for the working class. 

Sandel pants to the fact that Abraham Lincoln is recognized as one of the best leaders in the history of the US, yet did not have a college degree. I find this argument misleading. According to [(Goodwin, 2018)](202106131041.md) Goodwin Lincoln read everything he could get his hands on, and ended up practicing law. While technically he did not have a college degree, he certainly could be considered an academic. Sandel's more interesting argument is that being smart is not enough. To be a *good* requires good moral character and insight and this is something that Lincoln clearly possessed ([Lincoln's Lessons on Leadership](202106131058.md)).
