---
title: Rhetoric of Rising
date: 2021-12-22 16:35
tags: :rhetoric:meritocracy:
citation: (Sandel, 2020)
---

Sandel claims the rhetoric of rising first now rings hollow. The richest one percent of Americans make more than the bottom half combined. Sandel also claims it is easier to rise from poverty in Canada, Germany, Denmark, and other European countries (p. 23).

> Anyone should be able to rise as far as their talents and hard work will take them. (p. 67)

Reagan was the first president to popularize the phrase within political rhetoric. But both Clinton and Obama were found of similar phrases. Obama often borrowed from a pop song, "you can make it if you try". According to Sandel, there is a not so mentioned dark side to this rhetoric. If opportunities are equal, and there exists a perfect meritocracy, then those who are not successful deserve what they get.

Sandel makes an interesting (read: possibly suspect) argument about how the ability to rise is no longer true. In the 1940s, 90% of children earned more than their parents. Of children born in the 1980s only half surpassed their parents (p. 75). I take issue with two points of this argument. The first employs the idea of regression to the mean. The fact that there is variance in the portion of children who out earn their parents does not necessary imply that that idea has become more difficult, especially if it coincides with an increase of mean income. Second, the post World War II time period directly followed the great depression. It would be more surprising to me if there was not a huge portion of children who earned more than their parents.

Also, see [The Role of Responsibility](202112221645.md).
