---
title: Memory
date: 2022-07-27 10:37
tags: :memory:
citation: (Hermans, 2021, ch 2)
---

Herman's offers an analogy of cognition as a computer. LTM memory (LTM) is the hard-drive, STM memory (STM) is the RAM, and working memory is the processor. STM memory has a capacity of 7 plus or minus 2 registers (Hermans claims this is actually 2-6 registers). As you take in information, LTM memory supplements the information being stored in STM memory. The more information you have stored in LTM memory, the more you can overcome the size limitation of STM memory.

In fact, the difference between experts and novices is the amount of information stored in LTM memory. Hermans provides the example of expert chess players. They are were able recreate board setups—when they consisted of positions that were playable—better than novice players. This experiment was recreated with programmers and the findings held. Expert programmers were able to reproduce code at a higher rate than novice programmers. However, when the chess positions and programs consisted of non-sense, experts faired similar to novices. Hermans attributes this to the idea of chunking.

A lack of information in LTM means you must rely on low-level reading of code and quickly overloads your STM. A sufficient level of information allows you to abstract concepts freeing up registers in STM.

You can improve your ability to chunk code through the use of design patterns, programming constructs, [comments](202207271013.md), [beacons](202207271022.md), and [deliberate practice](202101101242.md).

#TODO write note on chunking
